# CS424_Project2

In our project, we chose the data sets of crime and school suspensions because we were interested in seeing if there was a correlation between the two. We specifically chose elementary school data because it is location based. If a student were to live in a certain neighborhood then they would have to go to a specific elementary school, whereas a high school can have students from multiple areas around Chicago. Furthermore, we believe that if we were to create after school programs for younger students there would be a greater effect on their futures.

This visualization is directed towards after school program creators. Since our project brings to light the hot spots of crimes in relation to elementary schools suspensions. We can find which schools we need to  put more effort in creating a better environment by having after school programs, sports where families can be involved, free programs that parents can attend, and community events. Programs like these create a sense of community and social ties which  can forge a more unified community which can decrease crime.

Our visualization technique of spatial clustering is better equipped for the task of finding the best fit for what type of after school program because there are multiple types of after school programs. Such as those where only students of that school can attend and those where any students can attend. If the analyst were to find that there is a small cluster with a high percentage of suspension then after school program builders can choose to have a program that is specifically for that school whereas if there is a bigger cluster with not as high of a suspension rate then we can create a program where different students can go to a public building regardless of what school they attend.

 
Visual Analytic Technique: Abish Malik, Shehzad Afzal, Erin Hodgess, David S. Ebert, Ross Maciejewski, "VACCINATED — Visual analytics for characterizing a pandemic spread VAST 2010 Mini Challenge 2 award: Support for future detection", Visual Analytics Science and Technology (VAST) 2010 IEEE Symposium on, pp. 281-282, 2010.
